# rushabhbot


## for this bot assignment I will be pulling data from Spotrac to give alerts whenever the Blatimore Orioles make a roster move. Given that the orioles are making constant roster moves such as calling up players from the minor leagues and moving players to and from the injury roster, I think it would be a good idea to notify people of that. https://www.spotrac.com/mlb/baltimore-orioles/overview/_/year/2025 is this site I will use to fetch the data for this bot and I plan to store the data in a json format as well. Right now I have the requests, json, and slack libraries as of now, I am not sure if I'll need to add beautiful soup to get the data just yet but I'll see if it needs to get added. Now I just need to get the data from the website, store it in a json format, and print the news out in a f string format. I'm just not sure how I will etract the roster news specifically however. 

## March 28 UPDATE

## As of right now I am currently trying to figure out how I can now make my bot only ping slack when a roster move is made by the O's. I have the code that gets the players information from Spotrac and it can print when I run the file in codespaces, however I need to figure out how this can be automated (unless it already is) and have it only ping when it needs to. This is what I am trying to work through and if there are any pointers regarding this I would love to hear them! I think I got to take a lot out of this process of making the bot. I strengthened my web scraping skills through this assignment and have a good idea how to get information from a site. I also learned how slack bots work and how to get things like keys to put into GitHub secrets which I did not know was a thing. A lot of the data from Spotrac can be grabbed with just inspecting the page and looking through the HTML of the page, I learned how to look at things such as "a tags" and ul which helped me get the contract data off the site. From my intial steps, the only thing I really changed was deciding against storing the data in a json format, I might pivot towards writing the data in a CSV format though.


# BOT UPDATE 4/5/25

## Making this bot was one of the more interesting things I have gotten to do in this class. I got to put together previous web scraping principles such as using beautiful soup and creating a yaml file like we did for the previous git scraper. I also got to learn about how to create a bot that would be integrated into the class Slack and how that was coded in my script. I initially wanted to make a bot where it would notify the user of ticket prices dropping for an event that they wanted to attend, but with the Professor's note about these websites blocking scrapers, I decided to create a bot that would notify Orioles fans about the team's most recent transactions. In order to do that, I decided to scrape the transactions page off the Spotrac website, which handles all types of contractual news and things related to sports. I was able to successfully scrape the transaction data from the Spotrac website and tried to format it in a digestible way for when it gets sent out in the Slack channel. I did end up storing the scraped data within a CSV file that I created that would hold every contract that has been uploaded to the site. I had to create two with open statements that would read the CSV and then write to the CSV with the data. If this bot were to accept user input, I think the bot could give a more in-depth explanation of what the Orioles roster transaction was and the effects it could have on the teams cap space, signing bonuses where applicable, or any previous contracts they had signed before coming to the Orioles since Spotrac offers that on the player profile. Since MLB teams have one minor league team associated with them, I think it would be pretty useful to show if an Orioles minor league player gets called up for a game or gets designated back for the minors. Another useful version of this bot would also give additional context to a roster transaction if needed. An example of this would be if a player has to go through arbitration after something has been done. The bot would do its normal thing of notifying through Slack, but now it would provide a definition of what that means so the person getting the notification can understand it better.  
